==LITERATURE REVIEW==

===1.1 CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS (CMS): DEFINATIONS AND STRUCTURES===

Probir Ghosh, Andrew Rau-Chaplin (2006), E-business has grown rapidly in past few decades.
With this rapid growth, the demand for dynamic content generation has increased enormously.
The companies are developing dynamic websites to enhance efficiency and to get most up to
date information. With this technology web pages can be created at run time that increases the
flexibility giving a rich experience to its users. One of the drawback of the posed by dynamic
web pages is that they reduce the performance of application server such as waiting for
connection to the database and wait for processing the query.
Aleksandar Stoev, Aleksandar Dimov et al (2008) assert that software developers are trying to
develop web applications with best quality and at lower price. Most of the existing solutions are
static in nature. In last ten years the demand for web applications has increased enormously. One
of the most common problems in existing websites is their static nature. There is a need to
develop more dynamic web applications to reduce the cost of maintenance.
Matthijs Dijkstra et al (2004) assert companies are seeking people who can develop dynamic
websites in short time. Although developers are always ready to provide the support and help for
maintaining the websites but they are very expensive when the company needs to update on
regular basis. While creating dynamic websites it’s very important to differentiate between static
and dynamic data. The navigation through web pages mostly depends on static data where as
dynamic data is actually stored in the database and does not play a role in decision making
process. The users can access the dynamic data by making a request to the server through
browser and a web page will be rendered on the fly based on the data stored in the database.
Andrew Yang, James Linn, and David Quadrato (1998) say, the content of web site is more
important than simply connection to the internet. For a website to be successful it is very
important to include dynamic data in their web pages. A dynamic website is capable of retrieving
only desired data requested by the users. The data is actually stored in various files on servers
over the internet.
Dr. M.H. Jansen-Vullers, M. Netjes and Dr. ir. H.A. Reijers (2004) have found that it is very
important for companies to integrate existing business processes with new electronic business
processes rather than having a flashy website. In order to achieve business benefits the business
strategy must be aligned with its information strategy. There are many examples of failures of
companies after starting business online. Those companies failed because they could not
redesign their business model according to the new requirements.
Min Zhu, Weidong Liu , Zhuo Fang, Wensong Hu (2008), believe that due to rapid growth of
internet organizations are putting their business online. There are millions of websites benefiting
businesses. But one of the major problems with these websites is, when customer opens a
website, he may have to wait for a long time to get the response. Therefore it is very important
for a business to have a website with quick response.
According to Michael Grossniklaus and Moira C. Norrie “Managing today’s websites presents a
whole new set of challenges and requirements”. In the beginning when website is small it’s
easy to manage them but as sites grow they become more complex and to manage and update a
site can become very difficult and expensive.
Warren Harrison (2006) says “with CMS the users of the website do not have to type the
contents into the file using HTML tags. The fields are populated in the database and CMS
renders the web pages on the fly”. Harrison claims that developers are more conscious about
technical details of the system and they do not pay much attention on how end users will be
affected but in doing so they are developing systems that are complex and useless because at the
end of the day end users will use the system not developers. So it is very important to keep your
end users while developing the system.
CMS allows common users of the website to focus on contents of the site leaving design for
developers. In CMS layout of the web pages is stored separately from contents usually in style
sheets, making it easy to change the contents without affecting the design of the webpage.
Phil Suh, James Ellis, and David (2002) believe that a CMS is a technology that is used make the
process of creating, updating and publishing the content of a website as easy as possible. Thus
the management of the website can change the contents, apply different themes without having
the knowledge of programming.
Naveen Aggarwal, Nupur Prakash and Sanjeev Sofat (2009) believe that with the introduction of
Web 2.0 people are finding new ways of sharing information. The use of CMS allows its users to
enhance their creativity and diverse ways to collaborate. The use of content management systems
is increasing with the passage of time. Today’s applications require various types of contents
such as multimedia that are stored on remote servers. Upon request these contents are brought to
display on browsers. To design applications based on content management system is very
complex task. All modules depend upon each other and data is highly coupled. Another
challenging task is to design screens that users can customize according to their choice. People
think and behave differently, their choices and tastes are different, and their learning speed is
different. The developer has to think about all these options for their users. The end system
should be flexible enough to fulfill the demands of user for quite a fair period to time.

===1.1.1 TYPES OF CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS===

Email, record processing, information about customers, information about products, different
reports, streaming media are all types of information that forms business content. The amount of
content to be processed is increasing day by day depending upon the requirements of the
companies. With this increase in processing the large amount of contents efficiently and
accurately, organizations are looking for diverse content management solutions to enhance the
productivity of their business. Content management system provides this solution by allowing
creation, searching, editing, and publishing of contents to its users. Companies can take
advantage by acquiring CMS. Different types of CMSs are being used these days such as
document management, magazine/news publishing, E-Commerce, Source management control,
middleware but mainly there are two categories of content management systems, Enterprise
CMS and Web Portal CMS.

====DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT CMS====
These are software systems designed specifically for the storage and publication of information
on corporate level.

====MAGAZINE/NEWS PUBLISHING SYSTEMS====
These software systems help in publishing of news and magazine online. These CMSs also
provide the functionality of online discussion boards.



====E-COMMERCE SYSTMS====
These systems are used for online shopping. Both customers and management can be benefited
from these types of systems. Mainly these systems depend upon simple database to retrieve
information
.
====ENTERPRISE CMSs====
These types of content management systems provide comprehensive solutions at corporate level.
The main purpose to these CMSs is to provide the opportunity to the corporation to increase its
efficiency and improve business. The human are more prone to make mistakes. By using these
automated software human errors can be reduced to a certain level. At corporate level these
packages provide various functionalities like automatic ordering, shipping, invoicing, CRM and
management of documents. Enterprise CMSs are very complex in nature proving a lot of
functionalities and hence come in very heavy price.

====WEB PORTALS====
Web portals are small packages that can include one or more functionalities depending on the
needs of the company. Web portals permit their users depending on their role to change and
update some portions of the website. This is cost saving approach for the companies who don’t
want to spend money on maintenance of their websites.

===1.1.2 PROPERTIES OF CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS===
Mark Robson in executive overview of CMS suggests that while selecting a content
management system for your company; following key factors should be considered very
carefully.

====WYSIWYG====
“What You See Is What You Get” is the most important factor a CMS should have. Many
developers claim that their CMS is 100% WYSIWYG but in reality it is not true. There are lots
of limitations for users of the system when they try to update the contents of their websites. A
good CMS will allow its users to easily modify text, colors and formatting.

====EASY TO USE====
A CMS should be easy to use for novice users. Quite often vendors of CMS are interested in
putting a lot of functionalities in their system but they forget users of the system. If a CMS is not
providing ease of use then it is worthless.

====FAST BROWSING====
One of major problems of a lots modern websites is that their response time is very slow. Due to
this problem users have to wait for a long time to get their desired page. The main reason for this
is, developers make their page very complex by putting a lot of code. Web pages should be kept
simple and extra code should be avoided in order to make the browsing experience fast.

====FLEXIBLE====
Flexibility is yet another factor to consider while developing a CMS. Content management
systems are meant to be flexible otherwise there is no point to go for CMS. A CMS is for life, so
13	
it should be flexible enough to allow its users to make changes and include new features with
ease and comfort.

====BACK END NEEDS TO BE ORGANIZED====
Back end is the back bone of the system so it should be organized properly. Most of the times
when user requests a page the system checks the data in back end to get most up to date
information. If back end data is logically organized then users will get accurate and latest
information.

====SUITABLE FOR THE COMPANY====
Many CMSs are available in market but the question is, were they designed for your company?
Every company has different business requirements so it is not necessary that one CMS will suit all
companies. It would be good for company to go for its own CMS rather than choosing a common
CMS. The company then will be able to explain its requirements.

===1.1.3 MAIN FUNCTIONS OF CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS===
Paul Browning (2001) asserts that a content management system will vary from product to
product and it is not possible to have all functionalities in one single system but a true CMS
should have the following core elements.
1. Versioning
2. Workflow
3. Integration
These broad categories can be subdivided into smaller sub categories which are shown in the
diagram below.
 (source: http://www.google.co.uk/images?hl=en&q=cms+feautre+onion&biw=1280&bih=607

===1.1.4 WORKING OF CMS===

A content management system stores data in a central database on a remote location. Upon
request these contents are brought to the browser. CMS uses templates which are physical
WebPages. Basically a template consists of two parts which are HTML and coding. The HTML
part contains place holders and the code behind brings data from database and which is then
rendered on the browser in the form of web page. The function of template is to find the URL of
main content, widgets and menu and display on the browser. As shown in the diagram below
global navigation, menu, and widgets form the make a frame for the main content. These
elements can be reused for other WebPages.
The diagram belows shows how a typical CMS works. The main CMS application is hosted on a
remote server. Different users are assigned different roles. According to roles they can make
changes to the site. Design mangaers have full rights, approvers and editors have moderate
rights, site visitors have minimum rights and contetnt contributers have limited rights.

===1.1.5 RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS===

David Hillis (2009) says most of the time CMSs are successful but obviously like any other
systems CMSs are also not totally risk free. There are certain risks associated with content
management systems. One of the most important risks is lack of planning. A CMS is good and
beneficial if its implementation is successful. Before developing system it is very important to
align business model with technical specification. Business goals should always be given
preference and system should be developed accordingly. The system should be easy to use even
for non technical people. If the system is complex people will not use it and hence it will be
worthless. Navigation becomes a problem if contents and structure are not managed together
which will make hard for users to search and retrieve data. User’s roles are very important while
developing a system. If user’s roles are not managed properly than there is a possibility of
unauthorized users to access and modify important information. Another important factor worth
mentioning is to consider human factor while developing content management alongside
technical specification.

===1.1.6 BUSNIESS BENEFITS OF CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS===

Paul Browning and Mike Lowndes (2001) believe that content management system in reality is
not a technology but it is terminology that pin points the problems of modern websites. Internet
has become the main media for delivery to content. By creating, managing and publishing
content in an organized way companies can achieve business benefits. CMS allows re-use of
information collected from various resources saving time and cost. With the help of CMS
maintenance of information become much more easy and flexible keeping central control at the
same time. CMS ensures consistency of presentation by keeping the design logic from content
logic. By changing and updating the contents of the site on regular basis not only give a new
look and feel to the website but it also attracts customers because they are getting fresh data and
most up to date information. The users of the system know the business better than anybody else,
CMS gives them full control. The data is stored on a remote sever and only those users can
update data and make changes who are allowed to do so which means CMS provides better
security. CMS provides full flexibility by giving control to the users of the company according to
their roles and hence a company can save a lot of money by not calling specialist to update the
contents of their site on a regular basis.
(source: http://www.tech-faq.com/content-management-system.html)

===References===

* D. N. Jutla, J. Craig et al (2001) A Methodology for Creating e-Business Strategy, Proceedings of the 34th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences – 2001
* Brian Platz  (2007) 10 Reasons Why companies should start doing business online, available online at: http://www.dbwebdoctor.com/article_why_companies_need_a_website.asp 
* JIANG Liang-fu, CHEN Jing-liang , SHI Yong-qin (2010)  3rd International Conference on Information Management, Innovation Management and Industrial Engineering available online at: http://0-csdl.computer.org/dl/proceedings/iciii/2010/4279/04/4279d496.pdf 
* Zhi Liu, Dongyong Yang, Dongyuan Gu Department of Computer Science and Technology Zhejiang University of Technology Hangzhou 310023, China, 2010 Second International Workshop on Education Technology and Computer Science
* Aleksandar Stoev, Aleksandar Dimov et al (2008) Architectural framework for Dynamic Web-applications, International Conference on Computer Systems and Technologies - CompSysTech’08 
* Matthijs Dijkstra et al (2004) A Model for the Management of Dynamic Web ApplicationsICEC'04, Sixth International Conference on Electronic Commerce Edited by: Marijn Janssen, Henk G. Sol, and René W. Wagenaar
* Probir Ghosh, Andrew Rau-Chaplin (2006),  Performance of Dynamic Web Page Generation for Database-driven Web Sites Proceedings of the International Conference on Next Generation Web Services Practices (NWeSP'06)
* Chito N. Angeles,  Web Technologies: Training for Development and Teaching Resources: available online at: http://paarl.wikispaces.com/file/view/Developing+a+website.pdf , 
* Andrew Yang, James Linn, David Quadrato (1998) Developing Integrated Web and Database Applications a Using JAVA Applets and JDBC Drivers (pp-302)
* Dr. M.H. Jansen-Vullers, M. Netjes and Dr. ir. H.A. Reijers (2004), ‘Business Process Redesign for Effective E-Commerce’, sixth International Conference on Electronic Commerce Edited by: Marijn Janssen, Henk G. Sol, and René W. Wagenaar (ACM)
* Min Zhu1,  Weidong Liu ,  Zhuo Fang,  Wensong Hu (2008), Optimal Design for DOT NET Based E-commerce Websites, 2008 International Conference on Information Management, Innovation Management and Industrial Engineering, available at: http://0-csdl.computer.org./dl/proceedings/iciii/2008/3435/02/3435b424.pdf  
* Michael Grossniklaus, Moira C. Norrie : Information Concepts for Content Management Institute for Information Systems ETH Zentrum Zurich, Switzerland: Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Web Information Systems Engineering (Workshops)
* Harrison Warren,  Portland State University  (2006)  , Content Mismanagement Systems Vol: 23  Pp 5 – 8 
* Phil Suh, James Ellis, and David (2002) Thiemeck, “Content Management Systems”, Peer Information. 
* Naveen Aggarwal, Nupur Prakash and Sanjeev Sofat (2009), Web Hypermedia Content Management System Effort Estimation Model, SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes, Volume 34 Number 2, available at http://0-delivery.acm.org.brum.beds.ac.uk (accessed 5/04/11)
* Mark Robson, Website Content Management System (CMS) Package executive overview available at: http://www.insightgroup.co.uk/modules/downloadable_files/assets/10-CMS_Questions-021109.pdf 
* Paul Browning and Mike Lowndes (2001), JISC TechWatch Report: Content Management Systems, Information strategy cooridantor Bristol University available at: http://www.citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.15...pdf  